# CS-300

# What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
The problem that was trying to be solved within this project was to create a program that would print a sample schedule and course information alphanumerically for a college advising team. The program would load a file into a data structure and from there, genearate a list of courses with prerequisites for said courses and needed to sort the list alphanumerically as well as be able to locate specific courses in the list when searching for the courses and print the information of the course along with any prerequisites for the particular course.

# How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
Approaching this problem, I began by understanding the tasks that I needed to complete for the program. Secondly, I made sure that I had a good understanding of the different data structures, such as vectors, hash tables, and binary search trees. Having a good understanding of the different data structures allowed me to make the appropriate decision on choosing which data structure to use for this project. Data strucutres are important to understand because they create a foundation for the program as well as manage the data involved in addition to improving the performance of the program through the use of reduce run times allowing for the program to run efficiently.

# How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
I conducted online research and used videos for examples to overcome some of the roadblocks I faced when working on this project. My main method that I used to overcome some of the difficulties however, was patience and trial and error. This took more time then what was intended but it allowed me to experiment and find methods that I felt allowed me to complete the project in a manner that suited me as well as completing the requirements that the project needed such as printing a schedule alphanumerically and searching for courses and printing the course information along with any prerequisites that a course may have.

# How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
This project has challenged me to think about the way I interpret and produce programs. The algorithms I learned while in this course were extremely helpful in producing and creating a program for this project. Some of the resources I used to overcome the roadblocks I had with this project was conducting online research to help me fix some of the errors I was having when writing my code as well as searching for videos for examples on how specific data structures worked and how to go about incorporating them into my code. With that being said I feel that my code turned out the way I intended it to, and it resulted in the desired out come that the project wanted it to as my code does print a sample schedule of courses alphanumerically and prints course information and prerequisites when searching for courses in a list.

# How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
This by far has been the most challenging project I have worked on so far as this project has tested my patience and my developing knowledge of data structures many times. Adaptable, maintainable, and readable programs are important in any atmosphere with coding, as this project as well as this course has definitely pushed me to work on that more with every assignment. In addition, the work on this project has helped me to find new avenues of approach when working on such assignments and will prove invaluable as I continue further in future courses.
